# S-38 Instructions – Extract (Paragraphs 3–16)

## Treasures From God’s Word

3. **Talk:** Ten minutes. The theme and an outline of two or three main points are provided in the Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook. This talk is to be assigned to an elder or a qualified ministerial servant. When a new Bible book is scheduled in the weekly Bible reading, a video will be played to introduce it. The speaker may draw parallels between the video and the theme. However, he should be sure to cover the points outlined in the workbook. Also, as time allows, he should make good use of the artwork, which is designed to complement the material to be covered. He may include other reference material as long as it contributes to the development of the points in the outline.

4. **Spiritual Gems:** Ten minutes. This is a question-and-answer part without an introduction or a conclusion. It is to be handled by an elder or a qualified ministerial servant. The speaker should ask the audience both questions. Also, he may determine whether or not the cited verses need to be read. Those called on should offer comments of 30 seconds or less.

5. **Bible Reading:** Four minutes. This student assignment is to be handled by a male student. The student should read the assigned material without giving an introduction or a conclusion. The meeting chairman will be especially interested in helping students to read with accuracy, understanding, fluency, proper sense stress, modulation, appropriate pausing, and naturalness. Because some Bible reading assignments are shorter and others are longer, the Life and Ministry Meeting overseer should take into account the abilities of the students when making these assignments.

## Apply Yourself to the Field Ministry

6. Fifteen minutes. This section of the meeting is designed to give all the opportunity to practice for the ministry and to improve in their conversation skills and ability to preach and teach. As necessary, elders may receive student assignments. Each student should work on the study point from either the Teaching or Love People brochure that appears in parentheses next to the assignment in the Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook. At times, a part designated as a discussion will be scheduled. Such a part is to be handled by an elder or a qualified ministerial servant.—See paragraph 15 regarding how to handle discussion parts.

7. **Starting a Conversation:** This student assignment may be handled by a male or a female student. The assistant should be of the same gender or should be a family member. The student and the assistant may sit or stand.—For more information on the content and setting for this assignment, see paragraphs 12 and 13.

8. **Following Up:** This student assignment may be handled by a male or a female student. The assistant should be of the same gender. (km 5/97 page 2) The student and the assistant may sit or stand. The student should demonstrate what to say when following up on a previous conversation.—For more information on the content and setting for this assignment, see paragraphs 12 and 13.

9. **Making Disciples:** This student assignment may be handled by a male or a female student. The assistant should be of the same gender. (km 5/97 page 2) The student and the assistant may sit or stand. This part should demonstrate a segment of a Bible study already in progress. There is no need for an introduction or a conclusion unless the student is specifically working on one of these study points. It is not necessary to have all of the assigned material read aloud, although this may be done.

10. **Explaining Your Beliefs:** When designated as a talk, this student assignment should be handled by a male student. When designated as a demonstration, it may be handled by a male or a female student. The assistant should be of the same gender or should be a family member. The student should provide a clear and tactful answer to the theme question using the information in the reference provided. The student may decide whether or not to refer to the referenced publication during his part.

11. **Talk:** This student assignment is to be handled by a male student and given as a talk to the congregation. When the talk is based on a point from appendix A of the Love People brochure, the student should highlight how the verse(s) can be used in the ministry. For example, he may explain when a verse may be used, the meaning of the verse, and how to reason on it with a person. When the talk is based on a point from one of the lessons in the Love People brochure, the student should focus on how to apply the point in the ministry. He may highlight the example featured in point 1 of the lesson or highlight any of the supplementary verses included in the lesson, if helpful.

12. **Content:** The material in this paragraph and the following one applies to the “Starting a Conversation” and “Following Up” assignments. Unless otherwise noted, the student’s goal is to share a simple Bible truth that is relevant to the person he is speaking with and to lay the groundwork for a future conversation. The student should select a topic that is timely and effective locally. He may decide whether or not to introduce a publication or video from our Teaching Toolbox. Rather than demonstrate a memorized presentation, students should practice conversation skills, such as showing personal interest and displaying naturalness.

13. **Settings:** The student should apply the assigned general setting to local circumstances. For example:

- (1) House to House: This setting includes preaching from door to door—whether in person, by phone, or by letter—and following up on a previous conversation with a person contacted in the house-to-house ministry.
- (2) Informal Witnessing: This setting describes taking advantage of opportunities to turn an ordinary conversation into a witness. It may include sharing a Scriptural thought with those you meet at work, in school, in your neighborhood, on public transportation, or elsewhere while going about your daily activities.
- (3) Public Witnessing: This setting may include cart witnessing, calling on people at places of business, street witnessing, or witnessing in parks, parking lots, or wherever people can be found.

14. **Use of Videos and Literature:** Depending on the circumstances, a student may decide to feature a video or literature. If a student assignment includes a video or if a student chooses to feature one, he should introduce and discuss the video but not play it.

## Living as Christians

15. After a song, the next 15 minutes of this section will consist of one or two parts designed to help the audience apply God’s Word. Unless otherwise indicated, these parts may be assigned to elders or qualified ministerial servants, with the exception of a local needs part, which is to be handled by an elder. When a part is designated as a discussion, the speaker may ask questions throughout the part in addition to the ones provided. He should keep his introduction brief to allow for sufficient time to cover the main points and for audience participation. If an interview is called for, it is preferable for the one being interviewed to give his comments from the stage rather than from his seat, if possible.

16. **Congregation Bible Study:** Thirty minutes. This part is to be assigned to a qualified elder. (Where the number of elders is limited, qualified ministerial servants may be assigned, as needed.) The body of elders should determine who is qualified to conduct the Congregation Bible Study. Those approved should be able to preside in a meaningful way so as to keep the study on time, emphasize the key scriptures, and assist everyone to appreciate the practical value of the points covered. Those approved will benefit by reviewing published direction regarding how to conduct question-and-answer parts. (w23.04 page 24, box) After the assigned material for the week has been thoroughly covered, there is no need to prolong the study. Where possible, different conductors and readers should be used each week. If the Life and Ministry Meeting chairman directs that the study be abbreviated, then the conductor will have to decide how to abbreviate the study. He may choose to have the reading of some paragraphs omitted.
